# Adding cesmdev Packages

Since Derecho was deployed, CESM (primarily Jim Edwards) has been deploying a
set of modules which augment our own in a deployment called **cesmdev**. This is
accessible to users via a hidden module. The module is not versioned... rather,
it will automatically load modules relevant to whichever **ncarenv** version the
user has loaded. The **cesmdev** collection provides the following packages:

- Debug versions of **mpi-serial**, **parallel-netcdf**, **parallelio**, and
  **emsf**.
- Development (beta) versions of **parallelio** and **esmf**

Since **ncarenv/25.10**, CSG has assumed the responsibility for maintaining
these modules, and Chris Fischer is the primary point of contact in CGD for
information on needs. Brian Dobbins is the point of contact moving forward for
parallelio development.

!!! info "cesmdev SLC"
    CSG aims to install **cesmdev** modules for an **ncarenv** version with at
    least one month of testing time before that **ncarenv** version is made the
    default software stack.

!!! danger
    CESM developers *do* incorporate these modules into case configs, for better
    or worse. So consider these stacks to have the same level of mutability as
    the *ncarenv*.

## Deploying the cesmdev Cluster

Once CSG assumed responsibilities for **cesmdev**, it was incorporated into the
**ncar-spack** framework. The same process of deploying, installing packages
into *build*, and then publishing them into *public* is used here. There are
some notable differences, however:

- **cesmdev** is much simpler than an **ncarenv**; there is no *view*, and
  almost no postprocessing
- **cesmdev** is only deployed to support Derechol; these modules do not need to
  serve Casper
- Most lower level dependencies are actually used from **ncarenv** by treating
  it as an upstream installation in a chained Spack install
- Most YAML configuration is inherited from the upstream **ncarenv**

So philosophically, it makes sense to keep customizations in the **cesmdev**
environment to a minimum. Take note when building packages whether dependencies
are being used from the upstream **ncarenv** Spack. If they are not, this is
worth debugging.

Otherwise, follow the same workflow as for other cluster deployments.

## Making cesmdev Available to Users

As mentioned before, the **cesmdev** environment is made accessible by a hidden
`cesmdev/1.0` module. This module is actually generated by a postprocessing unit
in the derecho cluster. All of the logic to inherit modules from the correct
**ncarenv** is in place already via those two modules (and is actually the same
logic used to support user Spack downstreams).
