# Deployment Postprocessing

There are a number of deployment steps that either cannot easily be done in
Spack or cannot be done at all. For these tasks, a number of postprocessing
scripts (termed *units*, as in systemd) have been written. The postprocessing
units are stored in:

```bash
$NCAR_SPACK_ENV_BUILD/postprocess
```

And the units are executed by the script:

```bash
$NCAR_SPACK_ENV_BUILD/bin/postprocess
```

Existing postprocess units cover the following tasks and more:

- Add Cray Programming Environment modules
- Add utilites like `qhist` to the *view*
- Create Lmod init scripts for module initialization
- Write the top level `ncarenv` and `crayenv` modules
- Hide modules that we don't want all users to see
- Install Perl packages for CSEG and GDEX

Most postprocessing units can be run on the build environment or in the public
environment, and two copies are kept so that development can occur in build
without affecting public.

Manual postprocessing of the public environment is not typically required, as
this should be done by the `publish` script. That said, occasionally you may
want to postprocess the public environment without publishing, and that can be
done as follows:

```bash
NCAR_SPACK_ENV_TYPE=public $NCAR_SPACK_ENV_BUILD/bin/postprocess
```

## Special Units

Each unit will - by default - be run for both the build and public environments
and will be executed in alphabetical order. There are a few ways to modify this
behavior:

### Ordered Units

If you need a unit to run before other units, you can prepend the name with a
two-digit number. For example, the `01.X` unit will run before the `02.Y` unit
and all non-ordered units.

This type of ordering can be useful if you know other units need some setup done
first.

### Env-specific Units

Sometimes, you may want to only run a unit in the public (or less commonly
build) environment. To accomplish this, simply add the `.public` suffix to the
unit filename.

Such a restriction can be useful if a unit can take a long time to run and won't
be tested via normal mechanisms in the build environment (e.g., Perl module
installations).

### Helper Units

You may wish to share code/functions among multiple units. For this purpose, you
can create a helper unit by appending the `.helper` suffix to the unit script
name. Such a unit will not actually be executed, but can be sourced by any unit
that does run:

```bash
# Source helper functions
. $POSTPROCESS_UNIT_DIR/functions.helper
```

All units can be referenced via the `$POSTPROCESS_UNIT_DIR` variable, which is
set for you by the `postprocess` script.

## Notes on Specific Units

### Generating init-scripts

We initialize Lmod upon login using init scripts - otherwise, users would need
to source the init script every time they started a new shell. This is done in
multiple steps.

First, HSG has a bourne- and C-shell script in `/etc/profile.d` to start the
process. These scripts are called **z00_modules.sh** and **z00_modules.csh**
respectively. All they do is call scripts **localinit.[c]sh** in our default
deployment for the particular cluster.

The localinit scripts, in turn, are generated by a postprocessing unit called
**init-scripts**. The localinit logic is roughly based on scripts inherited from
Cheyenne and Yellowstone before it.
